---
# This file is licensed under the MIT License (MIT) available on
# http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT.
# Text originally from Bitcoin Core project
# Metadata and small formatting changes from Bitcoin.org project

## Required value below populates the %v variable (note: % needs to be escaped in YAML if it starts a value)
required_version: 0.11.1
## Required title.
title: Bitcoin Core version 0.11.1 released
## Optional release date.  May be filled in hours/days after a release
optional_date: 2015-10-15

---

<div class="post-content" markdown="1">

Notable changes
===============

Fix buffer overflow in bundled upnp
------------------------------------

Bundled miniupnpc was updated to 1.9.20151008. This fixes a buffer overflow in
the XML parser during initial network discovery.

Details can be found here: http://talosintel.com/reports/TALOS-2015-0035/

This applies to the distributed executables only, not when building from source or
using distribution provided packages.

Additionally, upnp has been disabled by default. This may result in a lower
number of reachable nodes on IPv4, however this prevents future libupnpc
vulnerabilities from being a structural risk to the network
(see https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6795).

Test for LowS signatures before relaying
-----------------------------------------

Make the node require the canonical 'low-s' encoding for ECDSA signatures when
relaying or mining.  This removes a nuisance malleability vector.

Consensus behavior is unchanged.

If widely deployed this change would eliminate the last remaining known vector
for nuisance malleability on SIGHASH_ALL P2PKH transactions. On the down-side
it will block most transactions made by sufficiently out of date software.

Unlike the other avenues to change txids on transactions this
one was randomly violated by all deployed bitcoin software prior to
its discovery. So, while other malleability vectors where made
non-standard as soon as they were discovered, this one has remained
permitted. Even BIP62 did not propose applying this rule to
old version transactions, but conforming implementations have become
much more common since BIP62 was initially written.

Bitcoin Core has produced compatible signatures since a28fb70e in
September 2013, but this didn't make it into a release until 0.9
in March 2014; Bitcoinj has done so for a similar span of time.
Bitcoinjs and electrum have been more recently updated.

This does not replace the need for BIP62 or similar, as miners can
still cooperate to break transactions.  Nor does it replace the
need for wallet software to handle malleability sanely[1]. This
only eliminates the cheap and irritating DOS attack.

[1] On the Malleability of Bitcoin Transactions
Marcin Andrychowicz, Stefan Dziembowski, Daniel Malinowski, Łukasz Mazurek
http://fc15.ifca.ai/preproceedings/bitcoin/paper_9.pdf

Minimum relay fee default increase
-----------------------------------

The default for the `-minrelaytxfee` setting has been increased from `0.00001`
to `0.00005`.

This is necessitated by the current transaction flooding, causing
outrageous memory usage on nodes due to the mempool ballooning. This is a
temporary measure, bridging the time until a dynamic method for determining
this fee is merged (which will be in 0.12).

(see https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6793, as well as the 0.11
release notes, in which this value was suggested)

0.11.1 Change log
=================

Detailed release notes follow. This overview includes changes that affect
behavior, not code moves, refactors and string updates. For convenience in locating
the code changes and accompanying discussion, both the pull request and
git merge commit are mentioned.

- #6438 `2531438` openssl: avoid config file load/race
- #6439 `980f820` Updated URL location of netinstall for Debian
- #6384 `8e5a969` qt: Force TLS1.0+ for SSL connections
- #6471 `92401c2` Depends: bump to qt 5.5
- #6224 `93b606a` Be even stricter in processing unrequested blocks
- #6571 `100ac4e` libbitcoinconsensus: avoid a crash in multi-threaded environments
- #6545 `649f5d9` Do not store more than 200 timedata samples.
- #6694 `834e299` [QT] fix thin space word wrap line break issue
- #6703 `1cd7952` Backport bugfixes to 0.11
- #6750 `5ed8d0b` Recent rejects backport to v0.11
- #6769 `71cc9d9` Test LowS in standardness, removes nuisance malleability vector.
- #6789 `b4ad73f` Update miniupnpc to 1.9.20151008
- #6785 `b4dc33e` Backport to v0.11: In (strCommand == "tx"), return if AlreadyHave()
- #6412 `0095b9a` Test whether created sockets are select()able
- #6795 `4dbcec0` net: Disable upnp by default
- #6793 `e7bcc4a` Bump minrelaytxfee default

Credits
=======

Thanks to everyone who directly contributed to this release:

- Adam Weiss
- Alex Morcos
- Casey Rodarmor
- Cory Fields
- fanquake
- Gregory Maxwell
- Jonas Schnelli
- J Ross Nicoll
- Luke Dashjr
- Pavel Janík
- Pavel Vasin
- Peter Todd
- Pieter Wuille
- randy-waterhouse
- Ross Nicoll
- Suhas Daftuar
- tailsjoin
- ฿tcDrak
- Tom Harding
- Veres Lajos
- Wladimir J. van der Laan

And those who contributed additional code review and/or security research:

- timothy on IRC for reporting the issue
- Vulnerability in miniupnp discovered by Aleksandar Nikolic of Cisco Talos

As well as everyone that helped translating on [Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/bitcoin/).

{% endgithubify %}
</div>
