---
# This file is licensed under the MIT License (MIT) available on
# http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT.
# Text originally from Bitcoin Core project
# Metadata and small formatting changes from Bitcoin.org project

## Please see _releases/0.10.0.md for a release template
required_version: 0.7.1
optional_date: 2012-10-19
title: Bitcoin-Qt version 0.7.1 released

---

New features
------------

* Added a boolean argument to the RPC `stop` command, if true sets
  -detachdb to create standalone database .dat files before shutting down.

* -salvagewallet command-line option, which moves any existing wallet.dat
  to wallet.{timestamp}.dat and then attempts to salvage public/private
  keys and master encryption keys (if the wallet is encrypted) into
  a new wallet.dat. This should only be used if your wallet becomes
  corrupted, and is not intended to replace regular wallet backups.

* Import $DataDir/bootstrap.dat automatically, if it exists.

Dependency changes
------------------

* Qt 4.8.2 for Windows builds

* openssl 1.0.1c

Bug fixes
---------

* Clicking on a bitcoin: URI on Windows should now launch Bitcoin-Qt properly.

* When running -testnet, use RPC port 18332 by default.

* Better detection and handling of corrupt wallet.dat and blkindex.dat files.
  Previous versions would crash with a DB_RUNRECOVERY exception, this
  version detects most problems and tells you how to recover if it
  cannot recover itself.

* Fixed an uninitialized variable bug that could cause transactions to
  be reported out of order.

* Fixed a bug that could cause occasional crashes on exit.

* Warn the user that they need to create fresh wallet backups after they
  encrypt their wallet.

----------------------------------------------------
Thanks to everybody who contributed to this release:

- Gavin Andresen
- Jeff Garzik
- Luke Dashjr
- Mark Friedenbach
- Matt Corallo
- Philip Kaufmann
- Pieter Wuille
- Rune K. Svendsen
- Virgil Dupras
- Wladimir J. van der Laan
- fanquake
- kjj2
- xanatos
